# **Personal Statement**

​    I am SunYunqi, an undergraduate student majoring in software engineering from Xidian University. I have always been fascinated by the strong scientific research atmosphere of Shanghai Jiao Tong University, hoping to be admitted by UM-SJTU Joint Institute. In the following, I will introduce myself from three aspects: my academic background, scientific research experience and research plan for the future postgraduate stage.

## **1. Academic Background**

​    My performance in the first five semesters was excellent, **ranking 2/119 (top 2%)**.  My GPA was **3.9/4.0**, and I was awarded first-class scholarship, Excellent Student and Excellent Member of the Communist Youth League. In addition, I got good scores in **CET 4 and CET 6, which were 600 and 539** respectively. My experience in scientific research and participating in international competitions has also cultivated my ability to read English literature proficiently.

## **2. Undergraduate Research and Original Work**

​    In terms of scientific research, I have always had a strong interest in cloud computing and big data.

​    In my sophomore year, I joined the Data Intelligence Laboratory of the school for related learning. In the one year since I joined the laboratory, I have been actively responsible for the work, and followed up the engineering project of "Core transformation and Application of OptaPlanner Planning Engine" and the related scientific research work of **"Edge User Allocation (EUA) problem"**. In the **Opta project**, I was mainly responsible for source code analysis and providing process documents for the replacement of the algorithm core, which I accomplished excellently. In the scientific research activity of EUA problem, I participated in the modeling of the problem and the analysis of the core algorithm, and mainly undertook the setting of the algorithm comparative experiment and wrote the analysis document of the comparative experiment results. At present, there is an **ICSOC conference paper** in the research project.

​    I also have rich experience in other original practical projects during my college years: my team analyzed the support mechanism and design concept of Hadoop's underlying file system, considered how to add support for Windows file system into it, and implemented a simple **XdFileSystem** by myself. In the second year of college, I used Python to implement a drawing language interpreter, integrated dynamic drawing, graphics preference setting, exception description and other functions.

## **3. Research Plan**

​    If I have the honor to study for a master's degree in Shanghai Jiao Tong University, I will make the following efforts from the three aspects.

### **Professional courses**

​    In the postgraduate period, I will continue to maintain a practical and active learning attitude, hoping to further systematically and scientifically learn the theoretical knowledge, so as to lay a solid foundation for academic research and practical activities.

### **Academic research**

​    I hope I can focus on scientific research and devote myself to academic study during my postgraduate study.

​    In depth, I hope to study big data or network computing related fields based on the edge computing knowledge I learned when I participated in scientific research projects during my undergraduate years. I hope to further study cloud-edge collaborative computing and other knowledge, and try to alleviate the existing computing pressure in the field of big data. On the other hand, from the perspective of breadth, I have a certain understanding of Hadoop distributed architecture during my undergraduate study, and I am eager to have the opportunity to participate in distributed research and further explore issues such as big data storage.

​    In the process of scientific research and learning, I will try to cultivate the habit of reading literature every day, draw experience from the achievements of others and summarize my own shortcomings, and simultaneously improve my cognitive breadth and logical thinking ability. I will actively communicate with my supervisor and other members of the team, constantly improve my theory, correct mistakes and shortcomings, and enhance my scientific research ability and teamwork ability.

​    My goal is to publish at least one CCF class A paper or other top-journal paper during my postgraduate study, to truly make contributions and achievements in my field, and do my best to live up to my own guidance and expectations as well as those of teachers.

### **Practical projects**

​    In addition to scientific research, I am also willing to participate in some engineering projects. In my opinion, learning to apply cutting-edge theoretical knowledge into practice is also one of the important values of scientific research. In the process of participating in the project, I will guide the practice with theory, draw experience from the practice, and constantly innovate to improve my practical level.

 